     Sub conservatione formæ specificæ salva anima.
                    —_Raymond Lully_.

      I am come of a race noted for vigor of fancy and ardor of
      passion. Men have called me mad; but the question is not yet
      settled, whether madness is or is not the loftiest
      intelligence—whether much that is glorious—whether all that is
      profound—does not spring from disease of thought—from moods of
      mind exalted at the expense of the general intellect. They who
      dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who
      dream only by night. In their gray visions they obtain glimpses
      of eternity, and thrill, in awakening, to find that they have
      been upon the verge of the great secret. In snatches, they learn
      something of the wisdom which is of good, and more of the mere
      knowledge which is of evil. They penetrate, however, rudderless
      or compassless into the vast ocean of the “light ineffable,” and
      again, like the adventures of the Nubian geographer, “agressi
      sunt mare tenebrarum, quid in eo esset exploraturi.”

      We will say, then, that I am mad. I grant, at least, that there
      are two distinct conditions of my mental existence—the condition
      of a lucid reason, not to be disputed, and belonging to the
      memory of events forming the first epoch of my life—and a
      condition of shadow and doubt, appertaining to the present, and
      to the recollection of what constitutes the second great era of
      my being. Therefore, what I shall tell of the earlier period,
      believe; and to what I may relate of the later time, give only
      such credit as may seem due, or doubt it altogether, or, if doubt
      it ye cannot, then play unto its riddle the Oedipus.

      She whom I loved in youth, and of whom I now pen calmly and
      distinctly these remembrances, was the sole daughter of the only
      sister of my mother long departed. Eleonora was the name of my
      cousin. We had always dwelled together, beneath a tropical sun,
      in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass. No unguided footstep
      ever came upon that vale; for it lay away up among a range of
      giant hills that hung beetling around about it, shutting out the
      sunlight from its sweetest recesses. No path was trodden in its
      vicinity; and, to reach our happy home, there was need of putting
      back, with force, the foliage of many thousands of forest trees,
      and of crushing to death the glories of many millions of fragrant
      flowers. Thus it was that we lived all alone, knowing nothing of
      the world without the valley—I, and my cousin, and her mother.

      From the dim regions beyond the mountains at the upper end of our
      encircled domain, there crept out a narrow and deep river,
      brighter than all save the eyes of Eleonora; and, winding
      stealthily about in mazy courses, it passed away, at length,
      through a shadowy gorge, among hills still dimmer than those
      whence it had issued. We called it the “River of Silence”; for
      there seemed to be a hushing influence in its flow. No murmur
      arose from its bed, and so gently it wandered along, that the
      pearly pebbles upon which we loved to gaze, far down within its
      bosom, stirred not at all, but lay in a motionless content, each
      in its own old station, shining on gloriously forever.

      The margin of the river, and of the many dazzling rivulets that
      glided through devious ways into its channel, as well as the
      spaces that extended from the margins away down into the depths
      of the streams until they reached the bed of pebbles at the
      bottom,—these spots, not less than the whole surface of the
      valley, from the river to the mountains that girdled it in, were
      carpeted all by a soft green grass, thick, short, perfectly even,
      and vanilla-perfumed, but so besprinkled throughout with the
      yellow buttercup, the white daisy, the purple violet, and the
      ruby-red asphodel, that its exceeding beauty spoke to our hearts
      in loud tones, of the love and of the glory of God.

      And, here and there, in groves about this grass, like
      wildernesses of dreams, sprang up fantastic trees, whose tall
      slender stems stood not upright, but slanted gracefully toward
      the light that peered at noon-day into the centre of the valley.
      Their mark was speckled with the vivid alternate splendor of
      ebony and silver, and was smoother than all save the cheeks of
      Eleonora; so that, but for the brilliant green of the huge leaves
      that spread from their summits in long, tremulous lines, dallying
      with the Zephyrs, one might have fancied them giant serpents of
      Syria doing homage to their sovereign the Sun.

      Hand in hand about this valley, for fifteen years, roamed I with
      Eleonora before Love entered within our hearts. It was one
      evening at the close of the third lustrum of her life, and of the
      fourth of my own, that we sat, locked in each other’s embrace,
      beneath the serpent-like trees, and looked down within the water
      of the River of Silence at our images therein. We spoke no words
      during the rest of that sweet day, and our words even upon the
      morrow were tremulous and few. We had drawn the God Eros from
      that wave, and now we felt that he had enkindled within us the
      fiery souls of our forefathers. The passions which had for
      centuries distinguished our race, came thronging with the fancies
      for which they had been equally noted, and together breathed a
      delirious bliss over the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass. A
      change fell upon all things. Strange, brilliant flowers,
      star-shaped, burn out upon the trees where no flowers had been
      known before. The tints of the green carpet deepened; and when,
      one by one, the white daisies shrank away, there sprang up in
      place of them, ten by ten of the ruby-red asphodel. And life
      arose in our paths; for the tall flamingo, hitherto unseen, with
      all gay glowing birds, flaunted his scarlet plumage before us.
      The golden and silver fish haunted the river, out of the bosom of
      which issued, little by little, a murmur that swelled, at length,
      into a lulling melody more divine than that of the harp of
      Æolus—sweeter than all save the voice of Eleonora. And now, too,
      a voluminous cloud, which we had long watched in the regions of
      Hesper, floated out thence, all gorgeous in crimson and gold, and
      settling in peace above us, sank, day by day, lower and lower,
      until its edges rested upon the tops of the mountains, turning
      all their dimness into magnificence, and shutting us up, as if
      forever, within a magic prison-house of grandeur and of glory.

      The loveliness of Eleonora was that of the Seraphim; but she was
      a maiden artless and innocent as the brief life she had led among
      the flowers. No guile disguised the fervor of love which animated
      her heart, and she examined with me its inmost recesses as we
      walked together in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass, and
      discoursed of the mighty changes which had lately taken place
      therein.

      At length, having spoken one day, in tears, of the last sad
      change which must befall Humanity, she thenceforward dwelt only
      upon this one sorrowful theme, interweaving it into all our
      converse, as, in the songs of the bard of Schiraz, the same
      images are found occurring, again and again, in every impressive
      variation of phrase.

      She had seen that the finger of Death was upon her bosom—that,
      like the ephemeron, she had been made perfect in loveliness only
      to die; but the terrors of the grave to her lay solely in a
      consideration which she revealed to me, one evening at twilight,
      by the banks of the River of Silence. She grieved to think that,
      having entombed her in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass, I
      would quit forever its happy recesses, transferring the love
      which now was so passionately her own to some maiden of the outer
      and everyday world. And, then and there, I threw myself hurriedly
      at the feet of Eleonora, and offered up a vow, to herself and to
      Heaven, that I would never bind myself in marriage to any
      daughter of Earth—that I would in no manner prove recreant to her
      dear memory, or to the memory of the devout affection with which
      she had blessed me. And I called the Mighty Ruler of the Universe
      to witness the pious solemnity of my vow. And the curse which I
      invoked of Him and of her, a saint in Helusion should I prove
      traitorous to that promise, involved a penalty the exceeding
      great horror of which will not permit me to make record of it
      here. And the bright eyes of Eleonora grew brighter at my words;
      and she sighed as if a deadly burthen had been taken from her
      breast; and she trembled and very bitterly wept; but she made
      acceptance of the vow, (for what was she but a child?) and it
      made easy to her the bed of her death. And she said to me, not
      many days afterward, tranquilly dying, that, because of what I
      had done for the comfort of her spirit she would watch over me in
      that spirit when departed, and, if so it were permitted her
      return to me visibly in the watches of the night; but, if this
      thing were, indeed, beyond the power of the souls in Paradise,
      that she would, at least, give me frequent indications of her
      presence, sighing upon me in the evening winds, or filling the
      air which I breathed with perfume from the censers of the angels.
      And, with these words upon her lips, she yielded up her innocent
      life, putting an end to the first epoch of my own.

      Thus far I have faithfully said. But as I pass the barrier in
      Time’s path, formed by the death of my beloved, and proceed with
      the second era of my existence, I feel that a shadow gathers over
      my brain, and I mistrust the perfect sanity of the record. But
      let me on.—Years dragged themselves along heavily, and still I
      dwelled within the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass; but a second
      change had come upon all things. The star-shaped flowers shrank
      into the stems of the trees, and appeared no more. The tints of
      the green carpet faded; and, one by one, the ruby-red asphodels
      withered away; and there sprang up, in place of them, ten by ten,
      dark, eye-like violets, that writhed uneasily and were ever
      encumbered with dew. And Life departed from our paths; for the
      tall flamingo flaunted no longer his scarlet plumage before us,
      but flew sadly from the vale into the hills, with all the gay
      glowing birds that had arrived in his company. And the golden and
      silver fish swam down through the gorge at the lower end of our
      domain and bedecked the sweet river never again. And the lulling
      melody that had been softer than the wind-harp of Æolus, and more
      divine than all save the voice of Eleonora, it died little by
      little away, in murmurs growing lower and lower, until the stream
      returned, at length, utterly, into the solemnity of its original
      silence. And then, lastly, the voluminous cloud uprose, and,
      abandoning the tops of the mountains to the dimness of old, fell
      back into the regions of Hesper, and took away all its manifold
      golden and gorgeous glories from the Valley of the Many-Colored
      Grass.

      Yet the promises of Eleonora were not forgotten; for I heard the
      sounds of the swinging of the censers of the angels; and streams
      of a holy perfume floated ever and ever about the valley; and at
      lone hours, when my heart beat heavily, the winds that bathed my
      brow came unto me laden with soft sighs; and indistinct murmurs
      filled often the night air, and once—oh, but once only! I was
      awakened from a slumber, like the slumber of death, by the
      pressing of spiritual lips upon my own.

      But the void within my heart refused, even thus, to be filled. I
      longed for the love which had before filled it to overflowing. At
      length the valley pained me through its memories of Eleonora, and
      I left it for ever for the vanities and the turbulent triumphs of
      the world.

      I found myself within a strange city, where all things might have
      served to blot from recollection the sweet dreams I had dreamed
      so long in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass. The pomps and
      pageantries of a stately court, and the mad clangor of arms, and
      the radiant loveliness of women, bewildered and intoxicated my
      brain. But as yet my soul had proved true to its vows, and the
      indications of the presence of Eleonora were still given me in
      the silent hours of the night. Suddenly these manifestations they
      ceased, and the world grew dark before mine eyes, and I stood
      aghast at the burning thoughts which possessed, at the terrible
      temptations which beset me; for there came from some far, far
      distant and unknown land, into the gay court of the king I
      served, a maiden to whose beauty my whole recreant heart yielded
      at once—at whose footstool I bowed down without a struggle, in
      the most ardent, in the most abject worship of love. What,
      indeed, was my passion for the young girl of the valley in
      comparison with the fervor, and the delirium, and the
      spirit-lifting ecstasy of adoration with which I poured out my
      whole soul in tears at the feet of the ethereal Ermengarde?—Oh,
      bright was the seraph Ermengarde! and in that knowledge I had
      room for none other. Oh, divine was the angel Ermengarde! and as
      I looked down into the depths of her memorial eyes, I thought
      only of them—and of her.

      I wedded—nor dreaded the curse I had invoked; and its bitterness
      was not visited upon me. And once—but once again in the silence
      of the night; there came through my lattice the soft sighs which
      had forsaken me; and they modelled themselves into familiar and
      sweet voice, saying:

      “Sleep in peace! for the Spirit of Love reigneth and ruleth, and,
      in taking to thy passionate heart her who is Ermengarde, thou art
      absolved, for reasons which shall be made known to thee in
      Heaven, of thy vows unto Eleonora.”

