Truth is stranger than fiction.—_Old Saying_

      Having had occasion, lately, in the course of some Oriental
      investigations, to consult the Tellmenow Isitsöornot, a work
      which (like the Zohar of Simeon Jochaides) is scarcely known at
      all, even in Europe; and which has never been quoted, to my
      knowledge, by any American—if we except, perhaps, the author of
      the “Curiosities of American Literature”;—having had occasion, I
      say, to turn over some pages of the first-mentioned very
      remarkable work, I was not a little astonished to discover that
      the literary world has hitherto been strangely in error
      respecting the fate of the vizier’s daughter, Scheherazade, as
      that fate is depicted in the “Arabian Nights”; and that the
      _dénouement_ there given, if not altogether inaccurate, as far as
      it goes, is at least to blame in not having gone very much
      farther.

      For full information on this interesting topic, I must refer the
      inquisitive reader to the “Isitsöornot” itself; but in the
      meantime, I shall be pardoned for giving a summary of what I
      there discovered.

      It will be remembered, that, in the usual version of the tales, a
      certain monarch having good cause to be jealous of his queen, not
      only puts her to death, but makes a vow, by his beard and the
      prophet, to espouse each night the most beautiful maiden in his
      dominions, and the next morning to deliver her up to the
      executioner.

      Having fulfilled this vow for many years to the letter, and with
      a religious punctuality and method that conferred great credit
      upon him as a man of devout feeling and excellent sense, he was
      interrupted one afternoon (no doubt at his prayers) by a visit
      from his grand vizier, to whose daughter, it appears, there had
      occurred an idea.

      Her name was Scheherazade, and her idea was, that she would
      either redeem the land from the depopulating tax upon its beauty,
      or perish, after the approved fashion of all heroines, in the
      attempt.

      Accordingly, and although we do not find it to be leap-year
      (which makes the sacrifice more meritorious), she deputes her
      father, the grand vizier, to make an offer to the king of her
      hand. This hand the king eagerly accepts—(he had intended to take
      it at all events, and had put off the matter from day to day,
      only through fear of the vizier),—but, in accepting it now, he
      gives all parties very distinctly to understand, that, grand
      vizier or no grand vizier, he has not the slightest design of
      giving up one iota of his vow or of his privileges. When,
      therefore, the fair Scheherazade insisted upon marrying the king,
      and did actually marry him despite her father’s excellent advice
      not to do any thing of the kind—when she would and did marry him,
      I say, will I, nill I, it was with her beautiful black eyes as
      thoroughly open as the nature of the case would allow.

      It seems, however, that this politic damsel (who had been reading
      Machiavelli, beyond doubt), had a very ingenious little plot in
      her mind. On the night of the wedding, she contrived, upon I
      forget what specious pretence, to have her sister occupy a couch
      sufficiently near that of the royal pair to admit of easy
      conversation from bed to bed; and, a little before cock-crowing,
      she took care to awaken the good monarch, her husband (who bore
      her none the worse will because he intended to wring her neck on
      the morrow),—she managed to awaken him, I say, (although on
      account of a capital conscience and an easy digestion, he slept
      well) by the profound interest of a story (about a rat and a
      black cat, I think) which she was narrating (all in an undertone,
      of course) to her sister. When the day broke, it so happened that
      this history was not altogether finished, and that Scheherazade,
      in the nature of things could not finish it just then, since it
      was high time for her to get up and be bowstrung—a thing very
      little more pleasant than hanging, only a trifle more genteel!

      The king’s curiosity, however, prevailing, I am sorry to say,
      even over his sound religious principles, induced him for this
      once to postpone the fulfilment of his vow until next morning,
      for the purpose and with the hope of hearing that night how it
      fared in the end with the black cat (a black cat, I think it was)
      and the rat.

      The night having arrived, however, the lady Scheherazade not only
      put the finishing stroke to the black cat and the rat (the rat
      was blue) but before she well knew what she was about, found
      herself deep in the intricacies of a narration, having reference
      (if I am not altogether mistaken) to a pink horse (with green
      wings) that went, in a violent manner, by clockwork, and was
      wound up with an indigo key. With this history the king was even
      more profoundly interested than with the other—and, as the day
      broke before its conclusion (notwithstanding all the queen’s
      endeavors to get through with it in time for the bowstringing),
      there was again no resource but to postpone that ceremony as
      before, for twenty-four hours. The next night there happened a
      similar accident with a similar result; and then the next—and
      then again the next; so that, in the end, the good monarch,
      having been unavoidably deprived of all opportunity to keep his
      vow during a period of no less than one thousand and one nights,
      either forgets it altogether by the expiration of this time, or
      gets himself absolved of it in the regular way, or (what is more
      probable) breaks it outright, as well as the head of his father
      confessor. At all events, Scheherazade, who, being lineally
      descended from Eve, fell heir, perhaps, to the whole seven
      baskets of talk, which the latter lady, we all know, picked up
      from under the trees in the garden of Eden; Scheherazade, I say,
      finally triumphed, and the tariff upon beauty was repealed.

      Now, this conclusion (which is that of the story as we have it
      upon record) is, no doubt, excessively proper and pleasant—but
      alas! like a great many pleasant things, is more pleasant than
      true, and I am indebted altogether to the “Isitsöornot” for the
      means of correcting the error. “Le mieux,” says a French proverb,
      “est l’ennemi du bien,” and, in mentioning that Scheherazade had
      inherited the seven baskets of talk, I should have added that she
      put them out at compound interest until they amounted to
      seventy-seven.

      “My dear sister,” said she, on the thousand-and-second night, (I
      quote the language of the “Isitsöornot” at this point, verbatim)
      “my dear sister,” said she, “now that all this little difficulty
      about the bowstring has blown over, and that this odious tax is
      so happily repealed, I feel that I have been guilty of great
      indiscretion in withholding from you and the king (who I am sorry
      to say, snores—a thing no gentleman would do) the full conclusion
      of Sinbad the sailor. This person went through numerous other and
      more interesting adventures than those which I related; but the
      truth is, I felt sleepy on the particular night of their
      narration, and so was seduced into cutting them short—a grievous
      piece of misconduct, for which I only trust that Allah will
      forgive me. But even yet it is not too late to remedy my great
      neglect—and as soon as I have given the king a pinch or two in
      order to wake him up so far that he may stop making that horrible
      noise, I will forthwith entertain you (and him if he pleases)
      with the sequel of this very remarkable story.”

      Hereupon the sister of Scheherazade, as I have it from the
      “Isitsöornot,” expressed no very particular intensity of
      gratification; but the king, having been sufficiently pinched, at
      length ceased snoring, and finally said, “Hum!” and then “Hoo!”
      when the queen, understanding these words (which are no doubt
      Arabic) to signify that he was all attention, and would do his
      best not to snore any more—the queen, I say, having arranged
      these matters to her satisfaction, re-entered thus, at once, into
      the history of Sinbad the sailor:

      “‘At length, in my old age,’ [these are the words of Sinbad
      himself, as retailed by Scheherazade]—‘at length, in my old age,
      and after enjoying many years of tranquillity at home, I became
      once more possessed of a desire of visiting foreign countries;
      and one day, without acquainting any of my family with my design,
      I packed up some bundles of such merchandise as was most precious
      and least bulky, and, engaging a porter to carry them, went with
      him down to the sea-shore, to await the arrival of any chance
      vessel that might convey me out of the kingdom into some region
      which I had not as yet explored.

      “‘Having deposited the packages upon the sands, we sat down
      beneath some trees, and looked out into the ocean in the hope of
      perceiving a ship, but during several hours we saw none whatever.
      At length I fancied that I could hear a singular buzzing or
      humming sound; and the porter, after listening awhile, declared
      that he also could distinguish it. Presently it grew louder, and
      then still louder, so that we could have no doubt that the object
      which caused it was approaching us. At length, on the edge of the
      horizon, we discovered a black speck, which rapidly increased in
      size until we made it out to be a vast monster, swimming with a
      great part of its body above the surface of the sea. It came
      toward us with inconceivable swiftness, throwing up huge waves of
      foam around its breast, and illuminating all that part of the sea
      through which it passed, with a long line of fire that extended
      far off into the distance.

      “‘As the thing drew near we saw it very distinctly. Its length
      was equal to that of three of the loftiest trees that grow, and
      it was as wide as the great hall of audience in your palace, O
      most sublime and munificent of the Caliphs. Its body, which was
      unlike that of ordinary fishes, was as solid as a rock, and of a
      jetty blackness throughout all that portion of it which floated
      above the water, with the exception of a narrow blood-red streak
      that completely begirdled it. The belly, which floated beneath
      the surface, and of which we could get only a glimpse now and
      then as the monster rose and fell with the billows, was entirely
      covered with metallic scales, of a color like that of the moon in
      misty weather. The back was flat and nearly white, and from it
      there extended upwards of six spines, about half the length of
      the whole body.

      “‘This horrible creature had no mouth that we could perceive;
      but, as if to make up for this deficiency, it was provided with
      at least four score of eyes, that protruded from their sockets
      like those of the green dragon-fly, and were arranged all around
      the body in two rows, one above the other, and parallel to the
      blood-red streak, which seemed to answer the purpose of an
      eyebrow. Two or three of these dreadful eyes were much larger
      than the others, and had the appearance of solid gold.

      “‘Although this beast approached us, as I have before said, with
      the greatest rapidity, it must have been moved altogether by
      necromancy—for it had neither fins like a fish nor web-feet like
      a duck, nor wings like the seashell which is blown along in the
      manner of a vessel; nor yet did it writhe itself forward as do
      the eels. Its head and its tail were shaped precisely alike,
      only, not far from the latter, were two small holes that served
      for nostrils, and through which the monster puffed out its thick
      breath with prodigious violence, and with a shrieking,
      disagreeable noise.

      “‘Our terror at beholding this hideous thing was very great, but
      it was even surpassed by our astonishment, when upon getting a
      nearer look, we perceived upon the creature’s back a vast number
      of animals about the size and shape of men, and altogether much
      resembling them, except that they wore no garments (as men do),
      being supplied (by nature, no doubt) with an ugly uncomfortable
      covering, a good deal like cloth, but fitting so tight to the
      skin, as to render the poor wretches laughably awkward, and put
      them apparently to severe pain. On the very tips of their heads
      were certain square-looking boxes, which, at first sight, I
      thought might have been intended to answer as turbans, but I soon
      discovered that they were excessively heavy and solid, and I
      therefore concluded they were contrivances designed, by their
      great weight, to keep the heads of the animals steady and safe
      upon their shoulders. Around the necks of the creatures were
      fastened black collars, (badges of servitude, no doubt,) such as
      we keep on our dogs, only much wider and infinitely stiffer, so
      that it was quite impossible for these poor victims to move their
      heads in any direction without moving the body at the same time;
      and thus they were doomed to perpetual contemplation of their
      noses—a view puggish and snubby in a wonderful, if not positively
      in an awful degree.

      “‘When the monster had nearly reached the shore where we stood,
      it suddenly pushed out one of its eyes to a great extent, and
      emitted from it a terrible flash of fire, accompanied by a dense
      cloud of smoke, and a noise that I can compare to nothing but
      thunder. As the smoke cleared away, we saw one of the odd
      man-animals standing near the head of the large beast with a
      trumpet in his hand, through which (putting it to his mouth) he
      presently addressed us in loud, harsh, and disagreeable accents,
      that, perhaps, we should have mistaken for language, had they not
      come altogether through the nose.

      “‘Being thus evidently spoken to, I was at a loss how to reply,
      as I could in no manner understand what was said; and in this
      difficulty I turned to the porter, who was near swooning through
      affright, and demanded of him his opinion as to what species of
      monster it was, what it wanted, and what kind of creatures those
      were that so swarmed upon its back. To this the porter replied,
      as well as he could for trepidation, that he had once before
      heard of this sea-beast; that it was a cruel demon, with bowels
      of sulphur and blood of fire, created by evil genii as the means
      of inflicting misery upon mankind; that the things upon its back
      were vermin, such as sometimes infest cats and dogs, only a
      little larger and more savage; and that these vermin had their
      uses, however evil—for, through the torture they caused the beast
      by their nibbling and stingings, it was goaded into that degree
      of wrath which was requisite to make it roar and commit ill, and
      so fulfil the vengeful and malicious designs of the wicked genii.

      “This account determined me to take to my heels, and, without
      once even looking behind me, I ran at full speed up into the
      hills, while the porter ran equally fast, although nearly in an
      opposite direction, so that, by these means, he finally made his
      escape with my bundles, of which I have no doubt he took
      excellent care—although this is a point I cannot determine, as I
      do not remember that I ever beheld him again.

      “‘For myself, I was so hotly pursued by a swarm of the men-vermin
      (who had come to the shore in boats) that I was very soon
      overtaken, bound hand and foot, and conveyed to the beast, which
      immediately swam out again into the middle of the sea.

      “‘I now bitterly repented my folly in quitting a comfortable home
      to peril my life in such adventures as this; but regret being
      useless, I made the best of my condition, and exerted myself to
      secure the goodwill of the man-animal that owned the trumpet, and
      who appeared to exercise authority over his fellows. I succeeded
      so well in this endeavor that, in a few days, the creature
      bestowed upon me various tokens of his favor, and in the end even
      went to the trouble of teaching me the rudiments of what it was
      vain enough to denominate its language; so that, at length, I was
      enabled to converse with it readily, and came to make it
      comprehend the ardent desire I had of seeing the world.

      “‘Washish squashish squeak, Sinbad, hey-diddle diddle, grunt unt
      grumble, hiss, fiss, whiss,’ said he to me, one day after
      dinner—but I beg a thousand pardons, I had forgotten that your
      majesty is not conversant with the dialect of the Cock-neighs (so
      the man-animals were called; I presume because their language
      formed the connecting link between that of the horse and that of
      the rooster). With your permission, I will translate. ‘Washish
      squashish,’ and so forth:—that is to say, ‘I am happy to find, my
      dear Sinbad, that you are really a very excellent fellow; we are
      now about doing a thing which is called circumnavigating the
      globe; and since you are so desirous of seeing the world, I will
      strain a point and give you a free passage upon back of the
      beast.’”

      When the Lady Scheherazade had proceeded thus far, relates the
      “Isitsöornot,” the king turned over from his left side to his
      right, and said:

      “It is, in fact, very surprising, my dear queen, that you
      omitted, hitherto, these latter adventures of Sinbad. Do you know
      I think them exceedingly entertaining and strange?”

      The king having thus expressed himself, we are told, the fair
      Scheherazade resumed her history in the following words:

      “Sinbad went on in this manner with his narrative—‘I thanked the
      man-animal for its kindness, and soon found myself very much at
      home on the beast, which swam at a prodigious rate through the
      ocean; although the surface of the latter is, in that part of the
      world, by no means flat, but round like a pomegranate, so that we
      went—so to say—either up hill or down hill all the time.’

      “That I think, was very singular,” interrupted the king.

      “Nevertheless, it is quite true,” replied Scheherazade.

      “I have my doubts,” rejoined the king; “but, pray, be so good as
      to go on with the story.”

      “I will,” said the queen. “‘The beast,’ continued Sinbad to the
      caliph, ‘swam, as I have related, up hill and down hill until, at
      length, we arrived at an island, many hundreds of miles in
      circumference, but which, nevertheless, had been built in the
      middle of the sea by a colony of little things like
      caterpillars.’” (*1)

      “Hum!” said the king.

      “‘Leaving this island,’ said Sinbad—(for Scheherazade, it must be
      understood, took no notice of her husband’s ill-mannered
      ejaculation) ‘leaving this island, we came to another where the
      forests were of solid stone, and so hard that they shivered to
      pieces the finest-tempered axes with which we endeavoured to cut
      them down.’” (*2)

      “Hum!” said the king, again; but Scheherazade, paying him no
      attention, continued in the language of Sinbad.

      “‘Passing beyond this last island, we reached a country where
      there was a cave that ran to the distance of thirty or forty
      miles within the bowels of the earth, and that contained a
      greater number of far more spacious and more magnificent palaces
      than are to be found in all Damascus and Bagdad. From the roofs
      of these palaces there hung myriads of gems, like diamonds, but
      larger than men; and in among the streets of towers and pyramids
      and temples, there flowed immense rivers as black as ebony, and
      swarming with fish that had no eyes.’” (*3)

      “Hum!” said the king.

      “‘We then swam into a region of the sea where we found a lofty
      mountain, down whose sides there streamed torrents of melted
      metal, some of which were twelve miles wide and sixty miles long
      (*4); while from an abyss on the summit, issued so vast a
      quantity of ashes that the sun was entirely blotted out from the
      heavens, and it became darker than the darkest midnight; so that
      when we were even at the distance of a hundred and fifty miles
      from the mountain, it was impossible to see the whitest object,
      however close we held it to our eyes.’” (*5)

      “Hum!” said the king.

      “‘After quitting this coast, the beast continued his voyage until
      we met with a land in which the nature of things seemed
      reversed—for we here saw a great lake, at the bottom of which,
      more than a hundred feet beneath the surface of the water, there
      flourished in full leaf a forest of tall and luxuriant trees.’”
      (*6)

      “Hoo!” said the king.

      “Some hundred miles farther on brought us to a climate where the
      atmosphere was so dense as to sustain iron or steel, just as our
      own does feather.’” (*7)

      “Fiddle de dee,” said the king.

      “Proceeding still in the same direction, we presently arrived at
      the most magnificent region in the whole world. Through it there
      meandered a glorious river for several thousands of miles. This
      river was of unspeakable depth, and of a transparency richer than
      that of amber. It was from three to six miles in width; and its
      banks which arose on either side to twelve hundred feet in
      perpendicular height, were crowned with ever-blossoming trees and
      perpetual sweet-scented flowers, that made the whole territory
      one gorgeous garden; but the name of this luxuriant land was the
      Kingdom of Horror, and to enter it was inevitable death.’” (*8)

      “Humph!” said the king.

      “‘We left this kingdom in great haste, and, after some days, came
      to another, where we were astonished to perceive myriads of
      monstrous animals with horns resembling scythes upon their heads.
      These hideous beasts dig for themselves vast caverns in the soil,
      of a funnel shape, and line the sides of them with rocks, so
      disposed one upon the other that they fall instantly, when
      trodden upon by other animals, thus precipitating them into the
      monster’s dens, where their blood is immediately sucked, and
      their carcasses afterwards hurled contemptuously out to an
      immense distance from “the caverns of death."’” (*9)

      “Pooh!” said the king.

      “‘Continuing our progress, we perceived a district with
      vegetables that grew not upon any soil but in the air. (*10)
      There were others that sprang from the substance of other
      vegetables; (*11) others that derived their substance from the
      bodies of living animals; (*12) and then again, there were others
      that glowed all over with intense fire; (*13) others that moved
      from place to place at pleasure, (*14) and what was still more
      wonderful, we discovered flowers that lived and breathed and
      moved their limbs at will and had, moreover, the detestable
      passion of mankind for enslaving other creatures, and confining
      them in horrid and solitary prisons until the fulfillment of
      appointed tasks.’” (*15)

      “Pshaw!” said the king.

      “‘Quitting this land, we soon arrived at another in which the
      bees and the birds are mathematicians of such genius and
      erudition, that they give daily instructions in the science of
      geometry to the wise men of the empire. The king of the place
      having offered a reward for the solution of two very difficult
      problems, they were solved upon the spot—the one by the bees, and
      the other by the birds; but the king keeping their solution a
      secret, it was only after the most profound researches and labor,
      and the writing of an infinity of big books, during a long series
      of years, that the men-mathematicians at length arrived at the
      identical solutions which had been given upon the spot by the
      bees and by the birds.’” (*16)

      “Oh my!” said the king.

      “‘We had scarcely lost sight of this empire when we found
      ourselves close upon another, from whose shores there flew over
      our heads a flock of fowls a mile in breadth, and two hundred and
      forty miles long; so that, although they flew a mile during every
      minute, it required no less than four hours for the whole flock
      to pass over us—in which there were several millions of millions
      of fowl.’” (*17)

      “Oh fy!” said the king.

      “‘No sooner had we got rid of these birds, which occasioned us
      great annoyance, than we were terrified by the appearance of a
      fowl of another kind, and infinitely larger than even the rocs
      which I met in my former voyages; for it was bigger than the
      biggest of the domes on your seraglio, oh, most Munificent of
      Caliphs. This terrible fowl had no head that we could perceive,
      but was fashioned entirely of belly, which was of a prodigious
      fatness and roundness, of a soft-looking substance, smooth,
      shining and striped with various colors. In its talons, the
      monster was bearing away to his eyrie in the heavens, a house
      from which it had knocked off the roof, and in the interior of
      which we distinctly saw human beings, who, beyond doubt, were in
      a state of frightful despair at the horrible fate which awaited
      them. We shouted with all our might, in the hope of frightening
      the bird into letting go of its prey, but it merely gave a snort
      or puff, as if of rage and then let fall upon our heads a heavy
      sack which proved to be filled with sand!’”

      “Stuff!” said the king.

      “‘It was just after this adventure that we encountered a
      continent of immense extent and prodigious solidity, but which,
      nevertheless, was supported entirely upon the back of a sky-blue
      cow that had no fewer than four hundred horns.’” (*18)

      “That, now, I believe,” said the king, “because I have read
      something of the kind before, in a book.”

      “‘We passed immediately beneath this continent, (swimming in
      between the legs of the cow), and, after some hours, found
      ourselves in a wonderful country indeed, which, I was informed by
      the man-animal, was his own native land, inhabited by things of
      his own species. This elevated the man-animal very much in my
      esteem, and in fact, I now began to feel ashamed of the
      contemptuous familiarity with which I had treated him; for I
      found that the man-animals in general were a nation of the most
      powerful magicians, who lived with worms in their brain, (*19)
      which, no doubt, served to stimulate them by their painful
      writhings and wrigglings to the most miraculous efforts of
      imagination!’”

      “Nonsense!” said the king.

      “‘Among the magicians, were domesticated several animals of very
      singular kinds; for example, there was a huge horse whose bones
      were iron and whose blood was boiling water. In place of corn, he
      had black stones for his usual food; and yet, in spite of so hard
      a diet, he was so strong and swift that he would drag a load more
      weighty than the grandest temple in this city, at a rate
      surpassing that of the flight of most birds.’” (*20)

      “Twattle!” said the king.

      “‘I saw, also, among these people a hen without feathers, but
      bigger than a camel; instead of flesh and bone she had iron and
      brick; her blood, like that of the horse, (to whom, in fact, she
      was nearly related,) was boiling water; and like him she ate
      nothing but wood or black stones. This hen brought forth very
      frequently, a hundred chickens in the day; and, after birth, they
      took up their residence for several weeks within the stomach of
      their mother.’” (*21)

      “Fal lal!” said the king.

      “‘One of this nation of mighty conjurors created a man out of
      brass and wood, and leather, and endowed him with such ingenuity
      that he would have beaten at chess, all the race of mankind with
      the exception of the great Caliph, Haroun Alraschid. (*22)
      Another of these magi constructed (of like material) a creature
      that put to shame even the genius of him who made it; for so
      great were its reasoning powers that, in a second, it performed
      calculations of so vast an extent that they would have required
      the united labor of fifty thousand fleshy men for a year. (*23)
      But a still more wonderful conjuror fashioned for himself a
      mighty thing that was neither man nor beast, but which had brains
      of lead, intermixed with a black matter like pitch, and fingers
      that it employed with such incredible speed and dexterity that it
      would have had no trouble in writing out twenty thousand copies
      of the Koran in an hour, and this with so exquisite a precision,
      that in all the copies there should not be found one to vary from
      another by the breadth of the finest hair. This thing was of
      prodigious strength, so that it erected or overthrew the
      mightiest empires at a breath; but its powers were exercised
      equally for evil and for good.’”

      “Ridiculous!” said the king.

      “‘Among this nation of necromancers there was also one who had in
      his veins the blood of the salamanders; for he made no scruple of
      sitting down to smoke his chibouc in a red-hot oven until his
      dinner was thoroughly roasted upon its floor. (*24) Another had
      the faculty of converting the common metals into gold, without
      even looking at them during the process. (*25) Another had such a
      delicacy of touch that he made a wire so fine as to be invisible.
      (*26) Another had such quickness of perception that he counted
      all the separate motions of an elastic body, while it was
      springing backward and forward at the rate of nine hundred
      millions of times in a second.’” (*27)

      “Absurd!” said the king.

      “‘Another of these magicians, by means of a fluid that nobody
      ever yet saw, could make the corpses of his friends brandish
      their arms, kick out their legs, fight, or even get up and dance
      at his will. (*28) Another had cultivated his voice to so great
      an extent that he could have made himself heard from one end of
      the world to the other. (*29) Another had so long an arm that he
      could sit down in Damascus and indite a letter at Bagdad—or
      indeed at any distance whatsoever. (*30) Another commanded the
      lightning to come down to him out of the heavens, and it came at
      his call; and served him for a plaything when it came. Another
      took two loud sounds and out of them made a silence. Another
      constructed a deep darkness out of two brilliant lights. (*31)
      Another made ice in a red-hot furnace. (*32) Another directed the
      sun to paint his portrait, and the sun did. (*33) Another took
      this luminary with the moon and the planets, and having first
      weighed them with scrupulous accuracy, probed into their depths
      and found out the solidity of the substance of which they were
      made. But the whole nation is, indeed, of so surprising a
      necromantic ability, that not even their infants, nor their
      commonest cats and dogs have any difficulty in seeing objects
      that do not exist at all, or that for twenty millions of years
      before the birth of the nation itself had been blotted out from
      the face of creation.’” (*34)

      “Preposterous!” said the king.

      “‘The wives and daughters of these incomparably great and wise
      magi,’” continued Scheherazade, without being in any manner
      disturbed by these frequent and most ungentlemanly interruptions
      on the part of her husband—“‘the wives and daughters of these
      eminent conjurers are every thing that is accomplished and
      refined; and would be every thing that is interesting and
      beautiful, but for an unhappy fatality that besets them, and from
      which not even the miraculous powers of their husbands and
      fathers has, hitherto, been adequate to save. Some fatalities
      come in certain shapes, and some in others—but this of which I
      speak has come in the shape of a crotchet.’”

      “A what?” said the king.

      “‘A crotchet’” said Scheherazade. “‘One of the evil genii, who
      are perpetually upon the watch to inflict ill, has put it into
      the heads of these accomplished ladies that the thing which we
      describe as personal beauty consists altogether in the
      protuberance of the region which lies not very far below the
      small of the back. Perfection of loveliness, they say, is in the
      direct ratio of the extent of this lump. Having been long
      possessed of this idea, and bolsters being cheap in that country,
      the days have long gone by since it was possible to distinguish a
      woman from a dromedary—’”

      “Stop!” said the king—“I can’t stand that, and I won’t. You have
      already given me a dreadful headache with your lies. The day,
      too, I perceive, is beginning to break. How long have we been
      married?—my conscience is getting to be troublesome again. And
      then that dromedary touch—do you take me for a fool? Upon the
      whole, you might as well get up and be throttled.”

      These words, as I learn from the “Isitsöornot,” both grieved and
      astonished Scheherazade; but, as she knew the king to be a man of
      scrupulous integrity, and quite unlikely to forfeit his word, she
      submitted to her fate with a good grace. She derived, however,
      great consolation, (during the tightening of the bowstring,) from
      the reflection that much of the history remained still untold,
      and that the petulance of her brute of a husband had reaped for
      him a most righteous reward, in depriving him of many
      inconceivable adventures.

